PETE LEPAGE: Chrome 51
makes it easy to know
when an element enters or exits
the viewport with intersection
observers.
You can make the sign-in
process way easier
with the new Credential
Management API.
And you can reduce jank with
passive event listeners.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 51.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Intersection observers let you
know when an observed element
enters or exits the
browser's viewport--
no more jank-inducing calls
to get bounding client rect
or listening for scroll events.
To use, simply create a
new intersection observer,
provide a callback,
and an options object.
Then tell the observer
which elements to watch.
Boom!
When the element enters
or exits the viewport,
the callback is fired.
Check the description below
for link to a demo, browser
support, and more.
Creating, remembering,
and typing passwords
is a pain in the neck,
especially on mobile.
Chrome 51 supports the
Credential Management API,
a new W3C spec that
allows your site
to interact with the
browser's Credential Manager
and federated account services,
like Google and Facebook,
improving the login experience.
The API has three key methods--
navigator.credentials.get
to get the user's credentials
and initiate a sign-in flow,
store to save the user's
credentials in the Credential
Manager, and require
user mediation
to disable automatic sign-in.
There's more info about
the Credential Management
API, including a demo and
links to the docs, below.
Did you know that simply
adding an empty touch event
handler to a page can
make scrolling janky?
Less than 20% of touch
events call prevent default,
canceling the scroll.
But because the browser doesn't
know if it'll be called or not,
it has to wait for the
JavaScript to finish.
Chrome 51 adds support for
passive event listeners,
allowing you to declare
that an event listener won't
prevent a scroll, making it
easier to eliminate jank.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 51
for developers.
Check the description
for more details.
And be sure to
like and subscribe
so that as soon as
Chrome 52 is released,
you'll know what's
new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]